Now what I'd like you to do is we'll take at least a half hour
this time because this is going to be a little bit trickier than
both of these issues that we had before,
which is updating the client-side code in our
application in a couple of key ways.
The GitHub issues for this are tagged as Exercise 6 and the two
that I will ask of you are a couple meatier tasks.
The first is to actually start persisting the completed status of a todo
item using the REST API that we've set up on the back-end.
Now, if you remember, we, yesterday,
updated our application to accept a completed
attribute in addition to the title.
So our API and our back-end is fully set up to support this,
but our front-end still doesn't do anything about this.
So, our task would be to update the Vue.
js application to persist that completed attribute, as well as the title.
So that would be issue number 1.
And then issue number 2, if you get through that,
is to use some data binding features in Vue to add a feature to
the application which it doesn't have today.
The concept I had was adding a light and a dark theme to the todo list.
So, what I'd like to do is like maybe underneath the todo list add a UI element,
which is essentially a chooser of some kind which will let
the user switch between a light theme and a dark theme for
the CSS on the todo list.
So the way that I imagine this will work,
although feel free to riff if you would like,
is that there will be some component, some HTML,
links, or radio buttons, or whatever, underneath the todo list,
you click one of them,
and it will either toggle between like a light and a dark
by adding a CSS class to the container element for the
entire TODO list application.
Then you'll also have to write the CSS to power a
different theme for the application.
So, whether it's a different background color,
different fonts, or whatever,
adding an alternate theme to the TODO list application.
For bonus points, if you want to, after the user selects a theme,
save that in local storage as a user preference.
That I think would also be a pretty nifty feature.
So, you can peel off whichever of those you feel is more interesting,
or do both of them, which would be even better.
And as I said, I think we'll take at least a half hour to work through those,
as for many of you this will be the first time that you're
really digging into Vue in any great detail.
So take some time and see if you can knock out one of those.
If you only choose one,
the REST API one might be the more instructive of the two.
But if you get through that pretty easily,
the light/dark theme will introduce you to a few more features of
Vue that you wouldn't be exposed to otherwise.
A couple of questions.
What's this in the scope of the Vue object?
This is going to be the Vue component object itself.
So the actual instance of the Vue component.
That's what this is, and also incidentally,
it's why when in our handler code, so if we look at the Vue here,
we don't usually for the methods use the arrow syntax for the function
here because we want Vue to be able to set this in the scope of the
function to refer to the actual component instance.
So, yeah, this refers to the actual Vue component instance.
The other question was is Vue the primary framework we use at Twilio?
My team does use Vue in our little chunk,
but it's not the only framework in use at Twilio.
Like in the developer console,
they are now just like starting to introduce a lot of React stuff.
There's also a lot of handwritten JavaScript in there.
But the two primary ones in use that I know of are Vue and React at this point.
We're the only ones using Vue though, probably because of me.
But yeah, a lot more of Twilio is now being written in React as well on the front-end.